Welcome everyone to the solution for the second interview question the coding section of the Course
as a reminder you have a string.
This sort of format where a bunch of letters series in a sequence and you compress it to be letter than
the number of how many times that occurred.
And it should also be case sensitive which actually makes your task easier.
And then for instance if you have something like a baby it's OK to return a longer string so you're
not really doing true compression here.
So a strategy is actually going to be pretty simple.
We're going to go along the string and keep a running count of the current letter series.
Once we detect a change in letter what we can do is we can compress that series with its count.
Let's go ahead and explain this further by coding this out.
OK so here you are let's start off by creating our compress function.
It's going to take in a string s and then we're going to make a run along the string.
So I will create a variable called Run and it's going to be an empty string.
Eventually we're going to keep adding to this and it's going to be the compressed version we return.
And then I create another variable called length which is just going to be the length of the string
itself.
Lips lower case us.
OK.
We're going to do two edge cases first.
The first edge case is if the length is zero.
So we'll say if the length of the string is 0.
Well then I know I'm just going to return an empty string because there's nothing really to compress
there.
And similarly if the length is equal to one then I know it's essentially just a single string.
This will just be something like a.
And what I would need to return off of that is the string itself concatenated with just one and that
can be for any letter.
So the length is one on going to return because the string itself plus concatenated with a string of
one there.
All right so those are the two edge cases.
If the length is zero or length has one.
OK so the next step is to actually initialize some variables.
I'm going to have a count variable is going to mean my count C.A. in our count is going to start off
as one because we know if we reach this point we have at least one instance of that first series of
letters and then I'm also going to create a variable called I.
And that's going to just be my index Holder basically counting the index of the string as I go along.
I'm going to say well I is less than the length of the string I'm going to do my logic.
So let's actually do some of this logic is pretty straightforward.
Fools say if s of-I is equal to s of minus one.
So what does that actually mean.
Well it means if the letter at the current index position is equal to the letter before it and the reason
we start at 1 is because indexing in Python starts at zero.
So the very first round of this is basically asking hey is the letter index 1 equal to the letter.
Index 0.
So it's doing that comparison and it's going to be doing that for our eyes as far as the length of the
string which is nice.
So if we know that's true that we have a match right.
So we're going to say that the count is going to get plus 1 and we start to count at 1 because we know
minimum we have at least one given that we've already gone past these if statements here.
So if we have a or match we go ahead and add that to counts.
Else it means there's no more letter matching.
So we've finally reached a new sequence of letters or maybe the end of the string.
So then we're going to store the results.
So we'll say the following will say run is equal to the current run variable plus s of minus one.
And the reason we choose that's a minus one is because by the time we get to this one survivor is going
to be a different letter or maybe the end of the string.
So we're going to say else run as if my mind is one here and then we'll just add on the current count
which is going to be the string count.
So we want to cast it as a string.
Otherwise we'll get an error here because it thinks you're trying to add a number to a string.
So pretty straightforward logic actually.
And then once we've done that we go ahead and reset the count to be equal to 1 again.
So then you can continue doing this and then outside of this we're going to do is add to the index count
to terminate that while loop.
So once we completed this we can go ahead and say something like I add 1 to it and then that should
terminate the while loop.
And then finally we're going to put everything together back and run basically the final run addition
of this so we can just copy and paste this actually because when you do this one last time outside it's
while loop and then we're just going to return our run so pretty simple logic here it's a little tricky
to get it all working together but hopefully I understand the logic of just going along a string and
checking to see where the matches are.
Once you have no more matches you go ahead and just kind of concatenate that compressed version together.
So let's check this out and see if it works we'll say compress and we'll say two ways and three B's
and then we get to be three.
Looking good.
Let's make sure it works for lower case as well as upper case so if we run that looks like tonight for
which makes our lives even easier because we don't really have to care about that.
Although if you were to treat these the same you could've just done a method like the upper or lower
for them.
All right.
That's it for this.
Go ahead and check out the guidebook case you want the link to the code itself.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.